what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose when he
guys think of my new decorations so
today I want to make a really cool video
of you that I'm really excited to make
it's about how to prepare for medical
school interview questions it's
something I wish I had when I was
applying to medical school and when I
was preparing for interviews so
hopefully this helps you I hope you guys
enjoyed this I'm doing a questions and
answers video soon so that you guys can
hopefully learn a little bit more about
me about my background what I like to do
my hobbies my interests blah blah so if
you guys have any questions at all
whether that's personal academic about
kcl about medical school about
applications about me but whatever just
leave them in a comment section down
below on youtube or on my Instagram page
karma medic and yeah I'll be answering
all those questions in the Q&A video
soon let's get right into the video so
you've made it to the interview stage of
the medical school application process
for bravery congratulations this is
great thing news for you why because
this is the one opportunity for you to
show the interviewers who you are this
is your opportunity to talk about your
interests your hobbies so this will show
off your personality your charisma your
energy all of that stuff and this is
such a good opportunity to do so whether
it's MMI interviews or whether it's
panel interviews all of my tips
everything is gonna apply to both before
I even go on interviews to medical
school I was already preparing for
interviews because sometimes they give
you only weeks notice
sometimes it's usually like two weeks
three weeks a month but sometimes you
only get a weeks notice and you want to
make sure that you are as prepared as
can be so I started preparing before I
even got any interviews I was fully
committed I was fully dedicated how
interviews work is that interviewers are
gonna ask you questions and you're gonna
have to give an answer you're gonna have
to give a fairly short answer and it's
gonna have to include everything that
you want to say as succinctly as
possible giving the most detailed and
important information as possible when
you're preparing for medical school
interview questions you want to know
what kinds of questions are asked and
the absolute best way to do this is just
do tons of research on the internet step
one is to make a Word document title it
whatever you want
blah blah blah lit interview questions
document and you're gonna run the write
down all the dumb questions that you
find on the Internet have to
Medical School interviews every single
question why do you want to be a doctor
what's your biggest weakness which makes
rings - University what makes you a good
doctor
Bulova every single question you're
gonna want to write it down on that
document and beneath each question
you're gonna start building your
response you're gonna start building an
answer so a great way to find questions
is to obviously just scour the internet
there's tons and tons of resources most
importantly you want to go on previous
forums or university websites and look
at the types of questions that they ask
a lot of times the universities
themselves will talk about what they
will ask in an interview what kinds of
things they want to see in an interview
candidate and you want to make sure you
write those down and you have them
present second of all go on the student
room go on other forums and look at
students who have already been through
the interview process look at what kinds
of questions they were asked because
it's very likely you'll be asked similar
questions now a lot of people say that
you shouldn't prepare for an interview
that your answer should be like
automatic and that you should be able to
come up with your response on the spot I
couldn't agree with this piece of advice
less I couldn't want you to disregard it
any more you should prepare for the
interview like this is your life like
the interview is the most important part
this is where the admissions committee
is going to decide if we want to or we
don't want to prepare for this every
single damn day every hour that you have
you want to make sure that you kill it
into the last piece to the puzzle and
it's super super important you can
practice not being generic you can
practice not talking like a robot
you can practice sounding authentic
don't worry about that stuff just make
sure you have your content down you make
sure you say what you want to say and
get that across to the interviewers and
then you can fix how it is that you're
saying and your delivery I'm gonna go
through a couple of steps that I think
is the best way to create your answers
to come up with what you need to prepare
for a medical school interview question
so like I said before first things first
is to gather a huge huge huge range of
questions I'm not kidding I probably had
hundreds of questions in my document I
ended up with a 10,000 word document of
my responses this is no joke you need to
prepare and make sure you're ready for
the interviews after you've got done all
of your questions you have to start
somewhere so choose the questions that
you think are gonna be most relevant
that you think might come up the most
often and make sure you have answers for
those questions first before the more
obscure questions so you choose the
question why do you want to be a doctor
then beneath it your
sit down you're gonna think and you're
gonna write it out you're gonna type on
your response to that question now when
writing out your response you want to
use star s T a are and the reason for
that is it's a really good way to
structure a question the S stands for
situation you want to give a really
brief description of what the situation
was just a quick summary of where you
were what you were doing the type of
thing this is not the most important
part of the question then you want to
talk about the task what were you asked
to do what is it that you had to do
again not super super important this
needs to be brief now the super
important two things are actions and
result or reflection actions is what you
did to tackle this problem what you did
to change something your actions your
initiative this is the most important
part where the bulk of your answer
should be following that is the result
in the reflection the result is also
very important but the reflection is
even more important what you learn from
that experience how you changed how
you're gonna go and act now in the
future given what you did given the
experience that you had the reflection
is so so so super important once you've
written that out sometimes it's gonna be
a page long if it's something like tell
me about yourself or why do you want to
be a doctor and sometimes it's gonna be
a small paragraph long okay and that's
totally fine what you want to do is
narrow it down to a point where you can
speak it in 1 to 2 minutes you want to
sit down in front of your computer and
you want to read your response out loud
and you want to time yourself if it
turns out to be 5 minutes long that's
definitely way too long and you need to
cut it down if you're in the UK you want
your answers to be anywhere between one
and two minutes something like that
because the interviewers are gonna ask
you multiple questions they're gonna
have follow-up questions so you want to
be short and succinct once you have your
answer down to one or two minutes that's
great that's perfect
now you need to practice saying this out
loud first what I would do is just talk
to my computer I would read out my
answer and I would just practice saying
it out loud because I don't know about
you it's different for each person but
for me this was something that took a
lot of anxiety and a lot of obstacle to
overcome for me to be able to say these
answers with confidence and nothing
helps like practice I would just say it
and say and say try and memorize it so I
can say without looking at my computer
because of course you need to remember
this all from memory right
once I could practice singing out loud
and I was comfortable
the material that I was saying I would
start talking in front of a mirror this
time without my notes without looking at
the computer purely from memory now what
talking to a mirror helps you do is not
a you have to recall the information
from memory and be you're able to see
your demeanor you're able to see how
you're acting whether you're fidgeting
how you look if you're sitting up
straight with good posture or if you're
kind of hunched over like this if you're
maybe leaning into the interviewer to
sort of listen to what they're saying it
shows good communication skills or
whether you're just closed off like this
and like really scared so looking in the
mirror can definitely help with that and
something similar to that is recording
yourself now some people really like to
record themselves others like myself
don't I found that it just took way too
much time to record and to watch it back
and record and then watch it back so I
opted out for just looking into a mirror
I'm talking to myself that way something
I even did so that I would be more
engaging for me was I just drew a smiley
face on a piece of paper and I stuck
that on the mirror I was talking to the
smiley face pretending that that was the
interviewer so after you've spoken to
the mirror hopefully you remember
everything from memory now and you've
got that part locked down now what you
need to do is start talking to other
people and this for me was the biggest
jump in difficulty sometimes it's easier
for you to talk to your best friend or
to a family member or a parent and
that's definitely where I would
recommend starting if that's the most
thing that's what's most comfortable for
you for me I was in Toronto all of my
family was in Greece and my sister was
in the UK so I didn't really have family
to talk to first and what I opted to do
was to talk to people who I didn't know
people who were also preparing for
medical school interviews and that way I
think it honestly took off a lot of
pressure on me these people weren't my
friends they weren't my family they
weren't people who knew me so if I made
a complete fool out of myself I looked
really stupid it wouldn't matter no one
would care and I think that's something
that helped me get over my initial
anxiety of saying my questions out loud
to other people what I did is I met a
couple of people who I had never known
before in a interview mock interview
practicing session that my university
was hosting and I asked them if they
wanted to practice with me speaking
their answers out loud we were a group
of three two people would talk one would
be the interviewer 1 would be the
interviewee and the third person would
be an objective
observer from the outside taking notes
and after one of us gave a response both
the interviewer and the objective third
person would give their feedback just
having that feedback from another person
is so so so valuable and I cannot
recommend it enough if you can form a
small group like this it is the key to
your success honestly to form this small
group and start asking each other
questions meet up once a day as much as
you can and just go in circles one
question per person and you keep
switching rotating who's the interviewer
who's the interviewee and who's the
third objective person after failing so
many times in front of those people
being so read that I was a dumb tomato I
finally got over my anxiety of talking
to other people and by the time I go to
the interview room one side overcome the
initial nerves and the initial scariness
of the situation I became so friendly
with the interviewers but by the end of
it we were having a totally different
conversation separate to the actual
interview so in summary the first thing
you want to do is find a huge series of
questions then you want to write down
your responses to them using the star
method after that you want to practice
talking to the computer so that you can
narrow it down to one to two minutes
then you want to start talking in front
of a mirror so that you make sure that
you're confident saying it out loud and
you can start remember remember and get
from memory as well and after that you
need to talk to another person another
human being honestly it worked really
really well for me and I think that it's
a great adaptable way to practice for
interview questions stopped it - however
you feel is best but I think it's a
really good guideline I hope you found
this video useful I hope you enjoyed the
content and remember that I'm gonna be
doing a Q&A soon so ask me questions
found in the comment section below or on
my Instagram page and I'll answer them
when I can in the Q&A video all right
guys thank you so much for watching I
hope you've enjoyed this I hope you
found it useful
and I'll see you in the next one peace